[SDCI-2079] Document automatic job retries (#36147)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/automatic_retries.md

---
title: Automatic Job Retries
further_reading:
  - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
  - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines/github/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Set up CI Visibility for GitHub Actions"
  - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Set up CI Visibility for GitLab"
  - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Troubleshooting CI Visibility"
---

> <div class="alert alert-info">Automatic job retries are in Preview. To request access, contact your Datadog account team.</div>

Reviewer: just confirming: we don't have a Preview "request access" link (https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/?), correct?

Author: true, I'm working on it with the team

Author: we are going to GA it skipping the preview step. I removed the preview wording from the doc

Reviewer: got it—I just pushed a commit that adds this page to the left navigation menu, since you'd said, 

> Left nav omission was intentional, for now. While the feature is in Preview, we'd...

let me know if you'd not like the page to show up there!

Author: Thanks for adding the page to the nav — keeping it there makes sense now that we're shipping this as GA rather than Preview.

## Overview

Automatic job retries save developer time by re-running failures that are likely transient, such as network timeouts, infrastructure failures, or flaky tests. Genuine code defects are not retried. Datadog runs each failed job through an AI-powered error classifier. When the failure is identified as retriable, Datadog triggers a retry through the CI provider's API without manual intervention.

Automatic retries reduce the number of pipelines that developers re-run by hand, shorten feedback loops, and keep pipeline success metrics focused on non-transient failures.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<div class="alert alert-info">Automatic job retries are available for [GitHub Actions][1] and [GitLab][2].</div>
```
I think it's worth making this clear towards the top of the page

> ## How it works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How automatic job retries work
```

1. A CI job fails in your pipeline.
2. Datadog's AI error classifier inspects the job's logs and error context to determine whether the failure is transient.
3. If the failure is classified as retriable, Datadog requests a retry through the provider's API.
4. Datadog retries each failing job up to a maximum number of attempts to prevent infinite retry loops. Retries are counted per job per commit—if the same job fails again on a new commit, the counter resets.

> 5. Datadog records the retry outcome on the original pipeline in CI Visibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a job in your CI pipeline fails:
1. Datadog's AI error classifier inspects the job's logs and error context to determine whether the failure is transient.
  - This is the same AI error classifier used by [CI jobs failure analysis][6], which reads indexed job logs to decide whether a failure is transient.
1. If the failure is classified as retriable, Datadog requests a retry through the provider's API.
1. Datadog retries each failing job up to a maximum number of attempts to prevent infinite retry loops. Retries are counted per job per commit—if the same job fails again on a new commit, the counter resets.
1. Datadog records the retry outcome on the original pipeline in CI Visibility.
```

a couple of additional comments:
- "up to a maximum number of attempts" is vague—do we set this value? if so, can we say what it is? or is it configurable by the customer?"up to a maximum number of attempts" is vague—do we set this value? if so, can we say what it is? or is it configurable by the customer?

- on "Datadog records the retry outcome on the original pipeline in CI Visibility"—can we be a little more specific about how this is recorded? in which section of a pipeline page? 

- FYI, the sub-bullet I suggest adding here is pulled from the Requirements/Prerequisites section

## Requirements

- CI Visibility enabled for your [GitHub Actions][1] or [GitLab][2] integration.
- [Datadog Source Code Integration][3] configured for the repositories where you want automatic retries.
- Indexed CI job logs for those repositories (see [Collect job logs for GitHub Actions][4] or [Collect job logs for GitLab][5]).
- Automatic job retries enabled for your organization (see the banner above for how to request access).

> Automatic retries rely on the same AI error classifier used by [CI jobs failure analysis][6], which reads indexed job logs to decide whether a failure is transient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

To use automatic job retries:
- CI Visibility must be enabled for your [GitHub Actions][1] or [GitLab][2] integration.
- [Datadog Source Code Integration][3] must be configured for the repositories where you'd like to use automatic retries.
- Datadog must have indexed CI job logs for the repositories where you'd like to use automatic retries (see [Collect job logs for GitHub Actions][4] or [Collect job logs for GitLab][5]).
```
I removed the direction to request access since that's already at the top of the page and conceptually different from these Prerequisites. 

I also removed the note about CI jobs failure analysis, since that's not a Prereq—I am suggesting slotting it into "How it works" above

## Provider-specific behavior

> {{< tabs >}}

Reviewer: nit: can we switch the order of the tabs so GitHub Actions comes first? just to keep the order consistent with how they appear in the left nav

Author: makes sense!

{{% tab "GitLab" %}}

> Datadog performs **smart retries** on GitLab: only the specific job classified as retriable is re-run. Other failed jobs (that aren't classified as retriable) and passing jobs aren't affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a job fails in GitLab, Datadog only re-runs the specific job classified as retriable. Other failed jobs (that aren't classified as retriable) and passing jobs aren't affected.
```
calling them "smart retries," especially with bolding, feels like that's a distinct feature with its own name, etc. my hunch is that's just a colloquial way to describe the functionality as compared to GitHub

- Retries are triggered per job, as soon as the job fails.

> - Smart retries work with GitLab.com (SaaS) and self-hosted GitLab instances reachable by the Datadog Source Code Integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Automatic job retries works for both SaaS (GitLab.com) and self-hosted GitLab instances.
```
do we need a similar clarification in the GitHub tab?

> - There is no additional CI cost beyond the retried job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There is no additional CI cost beyond the retried job(s).
```
isn't this true for GitHub, too? is the distinction that GitHub retries jobs that don't need to be retried, or is there another source of cost?

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitHub Actions" %}}

GitHub Actions imposes two provider-level limitations that shape how retries work:

- **Retries happen after the workflow finishes.** The GitHub API does not allow retrying an individual job while the rest of the workflow is still running. Datadog waits for the workflow to reach a final state before issuing retries.

> - **All failed jobs are retried together.** The GitHub API does not support retrying a single job when other jobs in the workflow have also failed. Datadog reruns every failed job in the workflow through a single GitHub API call. This may increase your GitHub Actions compute usage.

Reviewer: is this: "Datadog reruns every failed job in the workflow through a single GitHub API call."

saying that failed jobs deemed non-transient by the AI error classifier will still be retried? e.g., if five jobs fail and only one is deemed transient, all five will be retried? (whereas with GitLab, only the one would be retried)

Author: yes, this is due to a limitation in the Github API and how the different providers works, is it clear? should I rewrite that part to make it more explicit?

Reviewer: I just left a suggestion, below, to make it extra clear

### Protected branches

The Datadog GitHub App's default permissions do not allow retries on protected branches. To enable automatic retries on a protected branch (for example, your default branch), grant the app org-wide Maintainer-level access. Review your organization's policies before expanding permissions.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Limitations

> - Jobs classified as non-retriable (for example, compilation errors or asserted test failures) are never retried.

Reviewer: related to my clarification question above—is this true for GitHub? 

I also don't feel like this is a "limitation" necessarily, just part of how the feature works

Author: it's true that we might be retrying this kind of jobs for Github as we retry all failed, will add a clarification. Agree that this doesn't seems to be a limitation but how it works

> - If a job has already been retried manually or by provider-native retry rules, Datadog does not issue an additional retry.

Reviewer: this doesn't sound like a _limitation_ either. hmmm what if we renamed this section, "When is a job not retried?" and listed these scenarios there?

Author: that's a clever idea, will do the change!

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/github/
[2]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/
[3]: /integrations/guide/source-code-integration/
[4]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/github/#collect-job-logs
[5]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/#collect-job-logs

> [6]: /continuous_integration/guides/use_ci_jobs_failure_analysis/

Reviewer: it seems like we should mention automatic job retries on this page, since they are so closely related

Author: like bi-directional relationship? makes sense

Reviewer: yeah, even just something in the Overview of https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_integration/guides/use_ci_jobs_failure_analysis/?tab=code that's like:

> Datadog also uses this classifier to power [automatic job retries][N], which reruns jobs whose failures are likely transient.

(this requires adding a reference link at the bottom of the file)

Author: Added in 48de08df32 to the Overview section of `use_ci_jobs_failure_analysis.md`, with the reference link at the bottom of the file.

    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Set up CI Visibility for GitLab"
  - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Troubleshooting CI Visibility"
---

<div class="alert alert-info">Automatic job retries are in Preview. To request access, contact your Datadog account team.</div>

## Overview

Automatic job retries save developer time by re-running failures that are likely transient, such as network timeouts, infrastructure failures, or flaky tests. Genuine code defects are not retried. Datadog runs each failed job through an AI-powered error classifier. When the failure is identified as retriable, Datadog triggers a retry through the CI provider's API without manual intervention.

Automatic retries reduce the number of pipelines that developers re-run by hand, shorten feedback loops, and keep pipeline success metrics focused on non-transient failures.

## How it works

1. A CI job fails in your pipeline.
2. Datadog's AI error classifier inspects the job's logs and error context to determine whether the failure is transient.
3. If the failure is classified as retriable, Datadog requests a retry through the provider's API.

> 4. Datadog retries each job up to a maximum number of attempts to prevent infinite retry loops.

Reviewer 2: why here we say `up to a max num` but then later we specify `at most once`?

Author: at most one the same job id, but the same job fingerprint is retried the N times, we don't have the settings yet, but once we have them we should update this doc

Author: Addressed in 6853349. Step 4 now explains the counting semantics ("per job per commit") and the "at most one time" line has been removed from Limitations since it was duplicative and confusing.

## Provider-specific behavior

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab" %}}

Datadog performs **smart retries** on GitLab: only the specific job classified as retriable is re-run. Other failed jobs (that aren't classified as retriable) and passing jobs aren't affected.

- Retries are triggered per job, as soon as the job fails.
- Smart retries work with GitLab.com (SaaS) and self-hosted GitLab instances reachable by the Datadog Source Code Integration.
- There is no additional CI cost beyond the retried job.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitHub Actions" %}}

GitHub Actions imposes two provider-level limitations that shape how retries work:

- **Retries happen after the workflow finishes.** The GitHub API does not allow retrying an individual job while the rest of the workflow is still running. Datadog waits for the workflow to reach a final state before issuing retries.
- **All failed jobs are retried together.** The GitHub API does not support retrying a single job when other jobs in the workflow have also failed. Datadog reruns every failed job in the workflow through a single GitHub API call. This may increase your GitHub Actions compute usage.

### Protected branches

> The Datadog GitHub App's default permissions do not allow retries on protected branches. To enable automatic retries on a protected branch (for example, your default branch), grant the app Maintainer-level access. Review your organization's policies before expanding permissions.

Reviewer 2: Question here for a detail, is this org-wide or repo-wide setting for the Maintainer-level access?

Author: this is per org AFAIK

Author: Thanks — clarified to "org-wide Maintainer-level access" in 6853349.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Limitations

> - Each logical job is retried at most one time.

Reviewer 2: it's a bit confusing to me what does logical job stands for here, maybe you mean:
```suggestion
- Each failed job is retried at most once.
```
?

Author: this means the same job id, maybe we should mention that or remove this line at all to avoid confusion, WDYT?

Reviewer 2: yeah we can add some explanation on logical job concept if we want to keep, but it's just not clear to me why we need to specify retries by job ID, it's a very technical concept I think

maybe we should just explain in the beginning of the doc how do we count for max number of retries so they know better what to consider for that setting, like "retries are counted for the pipelines/jobs executed in the same commit"

Author: Addressed in 6853349. Step 4 of **How it works** now clarifies: "Retries are counted per job per commit—if the same job fails again on a new commit, the counter resets." And the confusing "Each logical job is retried at most one time" bullet is removed from Limitations since it duplicated step 4 in technical terms. Let me know if this reads better.

Automatic retries reduce the number of pipelines that developers re-run by hand, shorten feedback loops, and keep pipeline success metrics focused on non-transient failures.

<div class="alert alert-info">Automatic job retries are available for <a href="/continuous_integration/pipelines/github/">GitHub Actions</a> and <a href="/continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/">GitLab</a>.</div>

## How automatic job retries work

When a job in your CI pipeline fails:
1. Datadog's AI error classifier inspects the job's logs and error context to determine whether the failure is transient.
   - This is the same AI error classifier used by [CI jobs failure analysis][6], which reads indexed job logs to decide whether a failure is transient.
1. If the failure is classified as retriable, Datadog requests a retry through the provider's API.

> 1. Datadog retries each failing job up to a maximum number of attempts to prevent infinite retry loops. Retries are counted per job per commit—if the same job fails again on a new commit, the counter resets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Datadog retries each failing job up to a maximum number of attempts (set by Datadog) to prevent infinite retry loops. Retries are counted per job per commit—if the same job fails again on a new commit, the counter resets.
```

Author: Applied exactly as you wrote it in 48de08df32 — thanks.

1. Datadog records the retry outcome on the original pipeline in CI Visibility.

## Prerequisites

To use automatic job retries:
- CI Visibility must be enabled for your [GitHub Actions][1] or [GitLab][2] integration.
- The [Datadog Source Code Integration][3] must be configured for the repositories where you'd like to use automatic retries.
- Datadog must have indexed CI job logs for the repositories where you'd like to use automatic retries (see [Collect job logs for GitHub Actions][4] or [Collect job logs for GitLab][5]).

## Provider-specific behavior

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitHub Actions" %}}

### GitHub Actions automatic job retries

GitHub Actions imposes two provider-level limitations that shape how retries work:

- **Retries happen after the workflow finishes.** The GitHub API does not allow retrying an individual job while the rest of the workflow is still running. Datadog waits for the workflow to reach a final state before issuing retries.

> - **All failed jobs are retried together.** The GitHub API does not support retrying a single job when other jobs in the workflow have also failed. Datadog reruns every failed job in the workflow through a single GitHub API call. This may increase your GitHub Actions compute usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **All failed jobs are retried together, even those classified as non-retriable.** The GitHub API does not support retrying a single job when other jobs in the workflow have also failed. Datadog reruns every failed job in the workflow through a single GitHub API call. This may increase your GitHub Actions compute usage.
```

Author: Applied exactly as you wrote it in 48de08df32.

## How automatic job retries work

When a job in your CI pipeline fails:
1. Datadog's AI error classifier inspects the job's logs and error context to determine whether the failure is transient.
   - This is the same AI error classifier used by [CI jobs failure analysis][6], which reads indexed job logs to decide whether a failure is transient.
1. If the failure is classified as retriable, Datadog requests a retry through the provider's API.
1. Datadog retries each failing job up to a maximum number of attempts (set by Datadog) to prevent infinite retry loops. Retries are counted per job per commit—if the same job fails again on a new commit, the counter resets.
1. Datadog records the retry outcome on the original pipeline in CI Visibility.

## Prerequisites

To use automatic job retries:
- CI Visibility must be enabled for your [GitHub Actions][1] or [GitLab][2] integration.
- The [Datadog Source Code Integration][3] must be configured for the repositories where you'd like to use automatic retries.

> - Datadog must have indexed CI job logs for the repositories where you'd like to use automatic retries (see [Collect job logs for GitHub Actions][4] or [Collect job logs for GitLab][5]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Datadog must have indexed CI job logs for the repositories where you'd like to use automatic retries (see [Collect job logs for GitHub Actions][4] or [Collect job logs for GitLab][5]).
- To enable this feature, you must have the **CI Provider Settings Write** permission in Datadog.
```
I just noticed this in the UI (I'm blocked from toggling because I don't have the permission)

Reviewer: looks like you applied this in https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/36147/commits/b0327746922668590557c6c82c0b5daf0f0b8e5e

## Enable automatic job retries

After the prerequisites are met, enable automatic job retries from the CI Visibility repository settings:

> 1. In Datadog, go to **CI Visibility > Settings > Repositories**, or open the [CI Visibility repository settings page][7] directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Datadog, navigate to **CI Visibility** > **Settings** > [**Repository**][7].
```

Reviewer: looks like you applied this in https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/36147/commits/b0327746922668590557c6c82c0b5daf0f0b8e5e

> 2. In the **Auto Job Retries** column, toggle automatic retries on for each repository, or use the global toggle to enable it for all supported repositories at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. For each repository you'd like to enable automatic job retries for, set the **Auto Job Retries** toggle on. To enable it for all repositories at once, use the **Enable Auto Job Retries for ALL repositories** global toggle.
```

Reviewer: looks like you applied this in https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/36147/commits/b0327746922668590557c6c82c0b5daf0f0b8e5e
